# The Growth Mindset vs The Fixed Mindset
### (An evaluation and self application of the two)

While I have never sat down and attempted to write out my thoughts on mindset nor taken a deep educated look into it, I have spent much of my life studying others through observation in an effort to see how they came to the paths of progression that they did.  This along with my new encounter with "The Growth Mindset" by Carol Dweck has made me rethink some of my previous stances and how I identify on the spectrum of mindsets.  During the course of this short essay, I will take a brief look into what the _fixed mindset_ is, what the _growth mindset_ is, how I think I fall on the spectrum between the two, as well as how I plan to adjust my awareness of my mindset while attending the Iron Yard.  I hope that this will serve as just one of many perspectives on the topic of mindset you can reference and that it will spark a similar discussion inside of you or with your friends.
    
Let's start with what the _fixed mindset_ is.  The _fixed mindset_ according to Carol Dweck is the belief that everyone is born with a fixed set of skills and aptitude.  This mindset believes that no matter your desire or interest in things that don't come "naturally" to you, that you are incapable of learning and becoming proficient at those things unless you were born with that ability in the first place.  How does someone come to the conclusion of a _fixed mindset_?  Well, often in our society, we unknowingly encourage this mindset through the improper types of reinforcement.  This reinforcement is centered around praising a persons intelligence, their personality, or their character.  By reinforcing these particular attributes, none of which in my humble opinion can be unbiasedly measured, we teach people that each of those attributes are being evaluated all the time.  This causes people with a _fixed mindset_ to feel the constant need to prove themselves and be acknowledged for these attributes fequently or their self worth suffers and they begin to even further narrow their mindset for potential.
    
What is a _growth mindset_?  Well, still referring to the great **Carol Dweck**, a _growth mindset_ is the belief that everyone has basic qualities that can be cultivated through thier own efforts.  This means that people with this mindset believe that they can learn or adapt to anything they want because they don't put a known limitation on someone's intelligence, character, or personality.  Well, how?  Not by just having this mindset, of course!  The way they are able to learn anything they want is through a laser like focus on process of learning and understanding new things.  When focusing on the process, we remove that little piece of us that links our success to intelligence and instead create a path to follow to obtain the intelligence we desire.  This same focus can be extrapolated to any character or personality changes we may have a desire to try out or permanently integrate.  This mindset is not widely adopted in our society at this time evidenced by the continual need to reward and acknowledge everything every single person does as well as self identify as just one of our many peronality attributes.  Acknowldgement is great but instead of acknowledging a persons inherent attributes, we should acknowledge and highlight the work and perserverance that someone put into an inordinarily hard accomplishment.  This reinforces that the work and effort is what made that person take a step forward and not an inate capability.
    
At this time, I think we have a pretty decent high-level idea of what a _fixed mindset_ is, what a _growth mindset_ is and how their differences equate to vastly different outcomes.  I had mentioned in my subtitle that I would be doing some self-reflection on where I believe I fit in with these mindsets and why.  I want to preface this by stating that I don't believe in absolutes.  This means that I won't personally support a mindset of just one or the other.  There is a great buddhist story about how the _middle path_ and balance is key to everything and I think that applies to our mindsets as well.  By this I mean that I believe we are born with some inate skills and personality traits but I also think that if our personal desire is such we can either strengthen those or adjust them to fit what our experiences have taught us we want then to be.
    
Being raised in a "engaged" household, I was always aware that the types of praise and task related interactions I had with my father and mother were different than those of most of my peers. I grew up in an environment that fostered a _growth mindset_, although I am unsure if my parents were aware of the concept. The emphasis for me has always been on understanding something rather than regurgitating something only to forget it or not know how it fits in with the world. This has personally caused me to be addicted to learning new things and feeling the most pride when I have to spend a lot of time learning something new that didn't click right away. I also have a distrust of things that make sense to easily and will often times test myself.
    
As for relating to a _fixed mindset_, I think we all are capable of fostering that within ourselves regardless of outside influences. I did this to myself when I was in IT training sales. I did not enjoy the job tasks because it conflicted with how I prefered to interact with people in my personal life and allowed that conflict of ideology to limit my potential as a sales person. I was constantly aware of this and because it made me so uncomfortable I would shy away from taking on the challenges necessary to progress into the advanced sales roles for the first 2/3rds of my time doing it. Finally I came to the conclusion that if I am to spend 5/7ths of my life doing something there is no excuse for not making sure that I become good at it and switched back to the _growth mindset_ I had been able to foster the majority of my life.  I do want to add however, that I do not see any conflict between a _growth mindset_ and a persons willful choice to not want to do something.  Mindset and desire are not dependent on one another in every situation.

How does all of this apply to our approach here at the **Iron Yard?**  I think anyone who has signed up for the Iron Yard has exhibited somewhat of a growth mindset.  Taking on such a clear challenge to improve ourselves and our possible outcomes would not have been something a person with a predominantly fixed mindset would do. However, the key will be maintaining a growth mindset. I will accomplish this by remaining focused on the important things (i.e. how I accomplished a task, understanding and not memorizing, applying new skills/knowledge to real examples) and by staying humble and utilizing the great resources we have available to us only when I have done my due diligence. This combined with being self aware of stress/frustration limits will foster a growth mindset and allow myself to take the most from this experience and set me up for a career full of continued learning.
    
I hope that this brief look into a topic that I am sure can be explored much further has been of interest or help to you as you evaluate your mindset beliefs.

### Sources:

* [Youtube: Sal Kahn interviews Carol Dweck](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wh0OS4MrN3E&feature=youtu.be)

* [Carol Dweck, Growth Mindsets and Motivation](http://ed.ted.com/on/UA77FlTc)

* [The Power of Believing that You Can Improve] (https://www.ted.com/talks/carol_dweck_the_power_of_believing_that_you_can_improve)

* [Mindset Online](http://mindsetonline.com/index.html)
