### First Week At The Iron Yard Reflection

Hello!  Has it already been a week?!?!  I know, I know the answer is yes and I should expect more weeks like this moving forward.  Weeks like what you ask?  Fast moving, challenging, and oh so rewarding.  Enough with the faux banter and let's get down to the meat of what we covered.

During our first week we set up and started the process of getting our rituals down.  Our instructors @al-the-x and @kellymurray taught us a bit about how some dev shops organize their day.  We start each morning by taking part in 'standup.'  This is where we as a group stand in a circle and discuss our status from the previous day.  We each share a _bright bulb_ (a topic or skill that clicked for us from the previous days), a _dim bulb_ (a topic or skill that we were able to use but maybe didn't fully understand) and our _blockers_ (what we couldn't get past after researching and utilizing our peers).  This is great because it gives the instructors an idea of where we are at as well as gives each of us a reference for who may be a good peer to access as a resource.

The rest of our rituals in order are three little things (these are three topics that the class as a collective would like additional instruction on), homework review and then we launch into the instruction for the day.  I have found that three little things and homework review often go hand in hand as my peers and I are eager to see where we went wrong the night before.  This has proven to be very beneficial even if we fully understood our previous days work as it acts as a reinforcer.  As for explicit instruction, we covered some good ground last week and I anticipate that we will steadily ramp up the amount of new information we are exposed to and practice implementing.  We started off the week by covering the four primitive types in JavaScript.  They are `null`, `boolean` (which can result in a value of `true` or `false`), `numbers` and `strings`.  We used our new found knowledge of these types to start writing expressions and statements that allowed us to perform simple operations.

`Expressions` are anything that results in a value.  `Statements` are lines of code that perform an action.  Often times `expressions` make up `statements` but not the other way around.  `Operations` are statements that have at least one `operator` and an `operand` on either side.  There are `functional operators` like +, -, %, etc... and `conditional operators` like &&, ||, etc...  Without these core parts of JavaScript the language would really be pointless.  As the week progressed we built on this knowledge by learning about `functions` (things we would like to do more than once), `arrays` (containers for ordered elements), introductory `looping` (moving through `arrays` to manipulate values), and `assertion` testing (essential to test driven development).  Each of these new skills presented new challenges in combining our previous knowledge in a practical and worthwhile new way.

While we didn't get explicit instruction for most of our first passes on practicing these concepts, I found that it really forced me to stretch my brain, take what information I could find and try to find creative ways to approach solving the activites.  Finally we spent the entirety of the week learning and getting familiar with the version control system `git` that we use to track our work and progress.  This has by far been my favorite portion of our instruction as I know, from friends and family that work in software development, it is a critical skill.

I know that I just relayed a high level overview of what we covered however, I am sure that as we progress through these next eleven weeks, I will have the opportunity to dive deeper and share more.  Thank you for reading and catch you on the `else` side of the condition. _(sorry for the bad stab at a code joke, I'm corny at times, what can I say?)_
