### Final Draft

##### Things to Reflect on from Week 5:
It's that time again.  Time to do a quick rundown and reflection on our previous weeks experience and learning.  Last week we did quite a bit and man am I a **tired** fan of that!  We started off by changing up some of our class rituals.  By this I mean we made a change to our classtime structure.  This included getting rid of three little things and the quiz in an effort to help us catch up and better understand the new challenging content we are encountering.  I really have enjoyed and benefited from these changes and feel that they have resulted in more direct lecture from our instructors and more explicit instruction on concepts that are pretty challenging.

Next we revisited that tricky to master Mocha Chai Testing.  You know that tool we have been fussing with to practice and learn test driven development.  This time around, I learned more about the process of writing tests and was able to connect that to actually writing code for a project in increments that help me manage the size of it as well as remain flexible as I realize new task needs.  I feel more confident with it than before by far but still am unsure if I would be able to properly execute this process on my own without any guidance at all.

Then we got some explicit instruction on Model View Controller.  We revisited the chessboard project (_OH NO, NOT THE CHESSBOARD PROJECT PROJECT PROjeeeeeccccttttt!!!!!!_), which was to date our most challenging assignment.  Unlike our first pass, this time we had the opportunity to learn a bit more about its construction and how that relates to MVC.  My understanding of both the project and MVC have grown exponentially and I feel as though I would be able to better identify the pieces of a project by this model moving forward.

More?!?! Yes more.  I told you it was a busy week.  We then started to learn about API's (Application Programming Interfaces).  API's are interaces that allow different software programs to communicate and work with each other.  They are everywhere and seem to be on the rise and even past that as we continue our move towards an interconnected digital world.  I am confident in the overall topic of API's but unsure as to proper use of them currently.  Definitely looking forward to tackling more of those as we progress through the second half of the program.

So how do I feel about everything thus far?  Don't worry, I'm not going to go into _Dear Diary,_ mode.  I feel as though the content has caught up to my previous exposure and for that I am grateful.  However, I am also nervous because this is where I need to be able to kick things into another gear so that I can continue to build the skills that will make me a viable candidate to companies.  I think my mindset shift from last week has helped tremendously and I plan to continue implementing that as well as making strides to better manage my rest.  This is something that I have neglected in an effort to maximize my learning and it has caught up with me in a bad way.  Catch up with you next week!


