### Final Draft:

Hello again.  We are now past the official halfway point, which seems to me like another great time to look back and reflect.  As we went through this last week, I definitely felt the mental fatigue start to hit me.  Up until this point I hadn't really felt anything other than physical fatigue from the long hours we have all been putting in to maximize our takeaway from assignments.  As I became aware of it's (mental fatigue's) presence, I tried to do a quick self evaluation.  How was I going to handle it?  What could I do to aliviate it?  And the most dreaded of all, is this my wall?  During that reflection I was shocked to feel a strong sense of relief.  Relief because this was what I had expected the entire process to feel like and therefore I was finally encountering the mental growth I had come for.  I also felt a rush of adrenaline because I think this is where we all get the chance to prove our metal and increase our overall sense of accomplishment.

To add to the above evaluation we had our first taste of working with one another on a joint project.  This was both exciting for me as I know that it is good practice for the real world dev environment and it also involved me having to step outside of myself.  You see, I am what some would classify as an introvert and what I would classify as an extreme introvert.  I have always enjoyed observing and studying others but don't relish the idea of being injected into the mix.  My partner and I's project was a parallel styled assignment where we weren't working on the same thing but instead working as a team to achive a greater collective thing.  This provided an excellent chance for us to act as resources for one another and work on our communication skills.  We ended up using a trello board to track our project progress and with a little guidance from our instructor @al_the_x we were able to closely mimick a feature based tracking system.  I have a little background with project management and setting that up was something that I enjoyed tremendously.  The fact that I had a great partner to help add input to that process made the execution of it all even more enjoyable.

Lastly, I wanted to talk about work load and how I have had to continually keep adjusting to handle it.  Throughout our experience here we have had a steady flow of work, however the nature of that work has gradually changed.  Near the beginning we were wrapped up in learning how to set up our environment and experimenting with using repositories.  This was a challenge but one that was more about learning processes rather than streching our reasoning.  As of late our list of assignments has dwindled in size but the time commitment it takes to achieve the goal of those assignements has increased exponentially.  As a result of this, I have found myself having to get better and better at prioritizing, knowing when I have proven understanding (although it is not pixel perfect), and when to take a small loss (like going to sleep) so that I can be alert and focused the next day when we encounter more new information.  Needless to say, this is a somewhat unsettling feeling for someone like me who prides themseleves on being thorough but I do believe that it will benefit me in the long run as there is always more to do in this field.

Thanks for reading!
